README.md, before:

# Sample FLIP Application

The purpose of this repository is to provide a sample application that can be developed and tested locally before being uploaded onto FLIP.
## **How to use this repository**

This repository contains a simplified sample application that replicates a running application on FLIP. This application runs on [NVIDIA Flare](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NVFlare).

Download or clone this repository and use the `./flip-app` directory as a sample application to run in NVIDIA Flare.

## **Development guide**

The `./flip-app` directory contains a replica of an application that can be run on FLIP. Some modules are stubbed with only a return type set. There are two main files that FLIP requires before running any training - `trainer.py` and `validator.py`. Both of these files you will find within `flip-app/custom` and contain a working example application that can be used as a starting point.

This example uses [NVIDIA FLARE](https://nvidia.github.io/NVFlare) to train an image classifier using federated averaging ([FedAvg]([FedAvg](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.05629))) and [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/) as the deep learning training framework.

> **_NOTE:_** This example uses the [CIFAR-10](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~kriz/cifar.html) dataset and will load its data within the trainer code.

These two files are where you should add your own application code. The `./samples` directory contains empty templates of both `trainer.py` and `validator.py`.

### 1. Install NVIDIA FLARE

Follow the [Installation](https://nvflare.readthedocs.io/en/2.0/installation.html) instructions.

> ⚠️ Please ensure you install version `2.0.16`

> Requires specific protobuf version [NVFlare GitHub Issue](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NVFlare/issues/608)

Install additional requirements:

```bash
pip install torch
pip install protobuf==3.20
pip install pandas
```

### 2. Set up your FL workspace

Follow the [Quickstart](https://nvflare.readthedocs.io/en/2.0/quickstart.html) instructions to set up your POC ("proof of concept") workspace.

Ensure you also copy this (`./flip-app`) directory into the NVFlare examples folder.

```bash
mkdir poc/admin/transfer/<APPLICATION_NAME>
cp -rf flip-app/* poc/admin/transfer/<APPLICATION_NAME>
```

### 3. Run the experiment

Log into the Admin client by entering `admin` for both the username and password.
Then, use these Admin commands to run the experiment:

```bash
upload_app <APPLICATION_NAME>
set_run_number 1
deploy_app <APPLICATION_NAME> all
start_app all
```

### 4. Shut down the server/clients

To shut down the clients and server, run the following Admin commands:
```
shutdown client
shutdown server
```

> **_NOTE:_** For more information about the Admin client, see [here](https://nvflare.readthedocs.io/en/2.0/user_guide/admin_commands.html).

## **FLIP methods**
The following methods are available to be used in training, located in `flip.py`:

- `get_dataframe(self, project_id: str, query: str) -> DataFrame`
   This retrieves data in the form of a Dataframe containing, at the minimum, accession IDs.
   The method takes in the project ID and the project query as parameters. These values are
   already passed in as parameters to the trainer to be used.

- `get_data(self, project_id: str, net_id: str) -> Path`
   This method is for internal use only, and is not be called by the trainer.

- `update_status(self, model_id: str, new_model_status: ModelStatus)`
   This method is for internal use only, and is not be called by the trainer.

### Import FLIP and call methods
- Import the module: `from flip import FLIP`
- Make an instance of the class: `flip = FLIP()`
- Use the instance to call one of the methods: `dataframe = flip.get_dataframe(project_id, query)`

This will allow successful calls to any the methods in `flip.py`.

## **Load config into trainer**
The `config.json` file allows variables to be defined and utilised within the trainer files.

An example of a config file:
```
{
	"GLOBAL_ROUNDS": 1,
	"LOCAL_ROUNDS": 1,
	"ROUND_HALF_UP": true,
	"LOSS_FUNCTION_START_VALUE": 1.0,
	"DAYS_OF_WEEK": [
		"mon",
		"tue",
		"wed",
		"thu",
		"fri",
		"sat",
		"sun"
	]
}
```

To use the config file within the trainer:

```
import json


self.config = {}

current_dir = os.path.dirname(__file__)
config_file = os.path.join(current_dir, "config.json")

with open(config_file) as file:
   self.config = json.load(file)
```

NOTE: As the sample application is a proof of concept, updating the global and local rounds in 
the config file will not dynamically update the global and local round values.

Commit message:

Update FLIP endpoints (#1)
* Update FLIP endpoints

* Update documentation

* In-line with base application + rebase from v1

* Update comments

* .

README.md, after:

# Sample FLIP Application

The purpose of this repository is to provide a sample application that can be developed and tested locally before being uploaded onto FLIP.
## **How to use this repository**

This repository contains a simplified sample application that replicates a running application on FLIP. This application runs on [NVIDIA Flare](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NVFlare).

Download or clone this repository and use the `./flip-app` directory as a sample application to run in NVIDIA Flare.

## **Development guide**

The `./flip-app` directory contains a replica of an application that can be run on FLIP. Some modules are stubbed with only a return type set. There are two main files that FLIP requires before running any training - `trainer.py` and `validator.py`. Both of these files you will find within `flip-app/custom` and contain a working example application that can be used as a starting point.

This example uses [NVIDIA FLARE](https://nvidia.github.io/NVFlare) to train an image classifier using federated averaging ([FedAvg]([FedAvg](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.05629))) and [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/) as the deep learning training framework.

> **_NOTE:_** This example uses the [CIFAR-10](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~kriz/cifar.html) dataset and will load its data within the trainer code.

These two files are where you should add your own application code. The `./samples` directory contains empty templates of both `trainer.py` and `validator.py`.

### 1. Install NVIDIA FLARE

Follow the [Installation](https://nvflare.readthedocs.io/en/2.0/installation.html) instructions.

> ⚠️ Please ensure you install version `2.0.16`

> Requires specific protobuf version [NVFlare GitHub Issue](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NVFlare/issues/608)

Install additional requirements:

```bash
pip install torch
pip install protobuf==3.20
pip install pandas
```

### 2. Set up your FL workspace

Follow the [Quickstart](https://nvflare.readthedocs.io/en/2.0/quickstart.html) instructions to set up your POC ("proof of concept") workspace.

Ensure you also copy this (`./flip-app`) directory into the NVFlare examples folder.

```bash
mkdir poc/admin/transfer/<APPLICATION_NAME>
cp -rf flip-app/* poc/admin/transfer/<APPLICATION_NAME>
```

### 3. Run the experiment

Log into the Admin client by entering `admin` for both the username and password.
Then, use these Admin commands to run the experiment:

```bash
upload_app <APPLICATION_NAME>
set_run_number 1
deploy_app <APPLICATION_NAME> all
start_app all
```

### 4. Shut down the server/clients

To shut down the clients and server, run the following Admin commands:
```
shutdown client
shutdown server
```

> **_NOTE:_** For more information about the Admin client, see [here](https://nvflare.readthedocs.io/en/2.0/user_guide/admin_commands.html).

## **FLIP methods**
The following methods are available to be used in training, located in `flip.py`:

- `get_dataframe(self, project_id: str, query: str) -> DataFrame`
  This retrieves data in the form of a Dataframe containing, at the minimum, accession IDs.
  The method takes in the project ID and the project query as parameters. These values are
  already passed in as parameters to the trainer to be used.

- `get_by_accession_number(self, project_id: str, accession_id: str) -> Path`
  This downloads scans and places them in a directory made available for NVFlare to utilise.
  The method takes in the project ID as a parameter as well as an accession ID, which can be 
  obtained from `get_dataframe`. It returns the path to where the scans are stored.

- `add_resource(self, project_id: str, accession_id: str, scan_id: str, resource_id: str, files: List[str])`
  This allows uploading scans to XNAT under the project that the model to. Scans are to be placed 
  in the `uploads` directory.
  The method does not have a return type. It supports the following required parameters: 
    - project ID
    - accession ID 
    - scan ID (ID/label of the directory at the scan level)
    - resource ID (ID/label of the directory at the resource level) 
    - a list of files corresponding to the names of the files that reside within the `uploads` 
    directory that you wish to upload, e.g. [`scan-1.dcm`, `scan-2.dcm`, ...].

  The list of files could also point to locations in subfolders relative to the uploads directory, 
  e.g. [`subfolder/scans/scan-1.dcm`, `scan-2.dcm`],
  where `scan-1` has the path `uploads/subfolder/scans/scan-1.dcm` and `scan-2` has the path `uploads/scan-2.dcm`.

  - `update_status(self, model_id: str, new_model_status: ModelStatus)`
    This method is for internal use only, and is not be called by the trainer.

### Import FLIP and call methods
- Import the module: `from flip import FLIP`
- Make an instance of the class: `flip = FLIP()`
- Use the instance to call one of the methods: `dataframe = flip.get_dataframe(project_id, query)`

This will allow successful calls to any the methods in `flip.py`.

## **Load config into trainer**
The `config.json` file allows variables to be defined and utilised within the trainer files.

An example of a config file:
```
{
	"GLOBAL_ROUNDS": 1,
	"LOCAL_ROUNDS": 1,
	"ROUND_HALF_UP": true,
	"LOSS_FUNCTION_START_VALUE": 1.0,
	"DAYS_OF_WEEK": [
		"mon",
		"tue",
		"wed",
		"thu",
		"fri",
		"sat",
		"sun"
	]
}
```

To use the config file within the trainer:

```
import json


self.config = {}

current_dir = os.path.dirname(__file__)
config_file = os.path.join(current_dir, "config.json")

with open(config_file) as file:
   self.config = json.load(file)
```

NOTE: As the sample application is a proof of concept, updating the global and local rounds in 
the config file will not dynamically update the global and local round values.
